			      EE 109  - Fall 2023
		       Lab 3 - Arduino Input and Output

Edit the document below to fill in your answers to the review problems at the
end of the assignment web page.

1. (2 points) Suppose we relocated the three buttons from group B, bits 5-3 to
group D, bits 5-3, noting that the LED is still attached to group D, bit
2. Assuming appropriate DDRD values, consider the following method of turning
on the LED.

	PORTD = 0x04; // turn on the LED
	
Explain the problem with this approach and, in particular, what would stop
working after the execution of that line of code.

ANSWER: First of all, you need to configure the pull-up resistors for bits 5-3 of group D.
This means setting those PORTD bits to 1, but each of those bits is currently 0. The pull-up
resistors aren't configured/working as the assignment operator modifies all PORTD bits at once.
We don't want to do this; we only want to modify the specific bits in question, as
to ensure the pull-up resistors are functioning and as not to potentially interfere with the
rest of the circuit (bad practice). (Instead, the operation should be PORTD |= 0x3C.)


2. (2 points) Note that in Lab 2 we found that the delay of a NOT gate
(hardware only) is around 10ns and this measurement was very
consistent. However, the delay measured in this lab is on the order of 10
microseconds (hardware + software) and varies considerably from measurement to
measurement. Briefly explain why the delay between the press of the 'C' button
and the start of the LED on/off sequence varied when you took multiple
measurements.

Hint: ignore the hardware propagation delays which are very small (tens of ns),
and think about how your program executes.

ANSWER: Compared to hardware, software takes time to iterate through the while loop. The program doesn't
always know where or when in the loop the desired condition/chunk of code will execute. You could "start"
anywhere in the loop — and any of the other if statements could trigger — which could result the program
taking "any" amount of time.